[Music]
although the foundation is registered he
says he has yet to launch
any programs instead he says he puts
money
into other charities i'm actually proud
of what we do i'm not ashamed of it
buzzfeed claims many of the recent
donations came from benevity a site that
connects large corporations like google
and apple
ii charities tonight a disclaimer was
placed on the black lives matter
foundation donation page
saying it had no association with blm
in their filing for the year 2017
they're showing only 89 000
in total spending only 24
000 on executive compensation so
salaries for the people who
run this organization and the only name
you can find
of someone receiving a salary
is robert ray barnes
google as much as you'd like if you look
around for robert ray barnes and black
lives matter
about the only information you can find
is that he is the person whose name
is on their tax form 990.
he's not someone we can find political
lectures on youtube from
how is it possible for a multi-million
dollar organization
so prominently featured in the news on a
daily basis
in the year 2020 to remain fundamentally
mysterious
both about what it does
and what it's trying to do and gofundme
sent us this statement
saying in part 180 campaigns have
recently raised money for the black
lives matter foundation
raising 350 thousand dollars gofundme
placed all funds on hold and we are
working with paypal
and the campaign organizers to ensure
all of the money raised is
transferred to the black lives matter
movement via their fiscal sponsor
we did reach out to the black lives
matter movement here in los angeles but
have yet to hear back as
for the black lives matter foundation
when it comes to
taxes the latest return we could find
was in 2017 the foundation brought in
just
under 300 thousand dollars barnes was
the only employee to get paid
just over 20 thousand dollars but our
whole goal is to find a way
to bring the community and the police
together so that
we can live in harmony with the police
although the foundation is registered he
says he has yet to launch
any programs he has yet to launch any
program
how is it possible for a multi-million
dollar organization to remain
fundamentally mysterious both about
what it does and what it's trying to do
now i'm putting the emphasis on point
two there
all social movements are aspirational in
nature
and most charity fundraising is
aspirational nature i think it's
completely fine
morally ethically politically to come
out and ask for donations and ask for
support and try to sell t-shirts with
your logo on it
when all you have to sell is the idea of
making the world a better place that's
what many of us
have to do it is a little bit
strange that in the year 2020 black
lives matter wants to sell you a t-shirt
with their logo on it for thirty dollars
when they received a headline grabbing
donation
of 100 million dollars
in 2016. robert ray barnes is the
founder of the black lives matter
foundation in santa clarita
not associated with the black lives
matter movement
and therein lies the confusion tonight a
buzzfeed
article claims in the wake of racial
protests donors mistakenly raised
more than 4 million dollars for the
local non-profit
thinking it was going back to the black
lives matter global network
the worldwide movement that aims to end
police brutality i've seen
articles that says that i've raised
4.3 million dollars where you know
i have never had anything close to that
the buzzfeed article
does say the bulk of that money raised
was frozen before it could be dispersed
nevertheless barnes says he is never
associated with
black lives matter global network i've
never heard
one word from anybody from black lives
matter but he says he has received
donations for his foundation
although he would not disclose the
amount i don't know whether they're
doing it to support what i was doing or
not how do i know
i've been around since 2015.
full disclosure when i received my
first payment from youtube for just one
thousand dollars
i decided to spend it giving my viewers
t-shirts
for free i printed t-shirts with my
channel's logo
and i asked them just to pay shipping
and handling i literally showed them the
receipt
from the post office for exactly how
much shipping and handling was to send
the t-shirt to them wherever they were
i gave away t-shirts for free when i had
earned just
one thousand dollars if you have
received
100 million dollars i think many of your
supporters
would be in a position to ask where are
the free t-shirts
or at least couldn't this t-shirt be
15.99
instead of 30 this may seem shallow
but it's really quite profound
organizations like peta
people for the ethical treatment of
animals they began
in pursuit of a definite set of
objectives
but then with the passage of time the
pursuit of
self-promotion the pursuit of
news coverage the promotions such as
selling t-shirts
took over more and more of what the
organization did
to the extent that no matter how many
millions of dollars they have
it seems that peta is in the business of
absolutely nothing other than nothing
more than promoting peta whether that be
news appearances t-shirts or what have
you
in record time and with a remarkably big
budget
something similar happens to black lives
matter
in the united states and it's a shame
because
to disclose my own bias i do
think there's a really important message
to be communicated here i do think
there's a really important
idea for a movement that could have
existed
but already now in 2020 we have to look
back at the last four years
and say where did all that money go
where did the budget go and where did
all that
potential go the pent up passion and
interest and engagement of millions of
people throughout the country and around
the world
and now looking ahead we have to ask
with all due skepticism what is supposed
to happen next
well we've now got the mugshot of the
one-time leader of a group called black
lives matter of greater atlanta
sir major page whose real name is tyree
conyers page is accused of defrauding
hundreds of people who donated to the
organization now gofundme is stepping in
to help those donors get their money
back the crowdfunding website tells 11
alive
more than 13 thousand dollars was raised
on their platform for the organization
a spokesperson says anyone who wants a
refund can request one
page is banned from using the site in
the future
fbi agents raided page's home in toledo
ohio on friday
he's accused of using more than two
hundred thousand dollars in donations
from the black lives matter of greater
atlanta organization
we're talking to pay for things like
food entertainment furniture and
tailored suits for himself
the fbi says he told donors their money
would be going to causes related to
social justice and
the george floyd case so the first thing
i would advise people to do is
understand what part of the black lives
matter movement you're donating
to there are so many different funds set
up right now
so just ensure that your money is going
where you intended to go
is it going to a bail time is it going
to a victim relief fund
are you donating for policy reform or
change
there's just a lot of different elements
and so that's the first piece of
research that
we think is really important you know we
see
in times like this it's always so
frustrating uh the the scammers and
people with bad intentions who would try
and take advantage
of people who are looking to help and
contribute
is there anything in particular that
pops up to you as a red flag if
someone's soliciting donations or if you
see certain things that
maybe that's not the best organization
to contribute to
yeah we do see scammers trying to take
advantage of donations during this time
the main thing people want to look for
is transparency
on the charity website is there some
sort of document or report or
filing that shows their costs the
percentage of donations
and that goes to operational overhead
versus boots on the ground
you're looking for that financial
transparency when you're donating
because some of the black lives matter
movement um
charities are not 50c 3s bbb
can't accredit them has nothing to do
with the legitimacy of the charity it's
just
not a 5063 which is within our policy
but apart from what actually is being
done with the money
apart from the question of where the
money went
it's even more peculiar to try to puzzle
out
what was the cause that anyone was
donating money to
four years ago and what cause now
does this organization represent
four years ago they had a manifesto
on their website and i made a youtube
video here
discussing point by point what that
manifesto said
and what it left unsaid and criticizing
it i think in a fair and open-ended way
saying look
this is not the way to define your
organization this is not the way to
write a constitution
explaining what it is you're going to do
and what you're not going to do and
warning
that this would lead to real problems in
the future for the organization
today that manifesto has been deleted
from their own website not just the page
was uploaded to the time there is no
trace
of that manifesto for black lives matter
there is no definition
no constitution there is no
text anywhere on the website that
defines for you
who they are what they're doing where
your money will go what it is even
that they're trying to accomplish now
the organization has existed for enough
years
that you can judge them by their past
accomplishments
by what they have done to some extent
however they define themselves
as a leaderless organization that does
not attempt to control or direct
the black lives matter movement there is
this
vague sense in which black lives matter
as an organization
is given credit for the outcomes in
these situations when there
are protests or when there is a lawsuit
and the lawsuit is even successful
in favor of the black people who are
slain by police
and i can't just say it's not clear to
me
that the organization did anything at
all on the contrary what i've said to
you is
even investigating this hoping to find
something i can give the organization
credit for
i wish i could come here on camera and
say to you they don't just sell t-shirts
they don't just paint their logo on race
cars
nascar they don't just do this kind of
promotion
that they really are out there doing
important things in these court cases or
even in these protests
but i have to tell you i haven't seen a
single example
where there's something tangible that
they're doing with
again more than 133 million dollars of
of charitable support a seemingly
bottomless budget an unbelievable level
of sincere
public interest and enthusiasm a lot of
people looking to this
this organization for leadership and
hope
and they themselves say in response to
this again again what they say is
they don't provide leadership they're
not leading organization
rather than using the word leaderless
they they have this cute word
leaderful we're a leader for we let
everyone lead themselves
and as bad
as the constitution of the movement was
that i
made a youtube video about more than
three years ago discussing as bad as
their constitution was
as bad as the old definitions were at
least that provided
some definition of who these people were
and what they're trying to accomplish i
understand
the aesthetic appeal of claiming to be a
horizontal organization a decentralized
organization
and a cephalos organization a leader
lizard i i understand
the egalitarian appeal of just saying
well anyone anywhere
can take a permanent marker and a piece
of cardboard and write black lives
matter on it and they're somehow
participating in and are part of
this movement but guess what ultimately
there is a bank account that this money
is being paid into
all right when somebody pays thirty
dollars for that t-shirt
it's not the case that a few pennies go
to each person or each chapter
around the world you know ultimately
there is a question of personal
responsibility
financially and there's a question of
leadership in terms of the unbelievable
lost potential
looking back at the last four years and
now we really have to ask ourselves
about the lost potential
in the next four years
maybe we can we can practice